docs(storybook): docs cleanup (#6495)
adobe/spectrum-web-components: 2nd-gen/packages/swc/.storybook/guides/customization/fonts.mdx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Create an Adobe Fonts web project** containing the font family for that language (e.g. Adobe Clean Han for CJK locales). Note the kit ID.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Language** toolbar above to change the locale. The sample below will render in the correct font for the selected language (either Latin or the matching CJK kit).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) font delivery is handled separately from the base Latin fonts. If you need CJK support, ensure you've included Adobe Clean Han in your Adobe Fonts web project or font-loading setup.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see classes, like:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All four weight variants becoming active (`n4` = normal, `n5` = 500, `n7` = 700, `n9` = 900) confirms that Typekit has fully loaded the kit.
```

## What's new in Adobe Clean Spectrum VF

Adobe Clean Spectrum VF is the default typeface for Spectrum 2. While it looks visually identical to Adobe Clean — the characters, glyphs, and sizing remain the same — it introduces several important improvements:

- **Updated font metrics**: Improved vertical alignment, especially within components and patterns. The font's baseline position is adjusted to better align text with nearby UI elements like icons and visuals
- **Variable font technology**: Supports expanded width and weight controls, including Condensed and SemiCondensed options, for more precise typographic adjustments and better performance
- **Serif alignment**: Adobe Clean Spectrum VF and Adobe Clean Spectrum Serif VF are now aligned vertically
- **Performance and consistency**: Bug fixes and greater consistency across tools used in product design

> - **Modern font development**: Unified vertical metrics in line with current best practices, reducing the need for manual pixel tweaks in layouts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Updated font metrics**: Improved vertical alignment, especially within components and patterns. The font's baseline position is adjusted to better align text with nearby UI elements like icons and visuals.
- **Variable font technology**: Supports expanded width and weight controls, including Condensed and SemiCondensed options, for more precise typographic adjustments and better performance.
- **Serif alignment**: Adobe Clean Spectrum VF and Adobe Clean Spectrum Serif VF are now aligned vertically.
- **Performance and consistency**: Bug fixes and greater consistency across tools used in product design.
- **Modern font development**: Unified vertical metrics in line with current best practices, reducing the need for manual pixel tweaks in layouts.
```

Periods for consistency

You can verify the font is loaded by:

1. Opening your browser's **Network** tab and looking for successful requests to `use.typekit.net` (status 200)
2. Checking the browser's **Computed** tab to verify the font family is inherited correctly when inspecting any component's individual text elements

> 3. Switching the **Language** toolbar and confirming a new kit script loads (e.g. for Japanese, a request for the Japanese kit)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Switching the **Language** toolbar and confirming a new kit script loads (e.g., for Japanese, a request for the Japanese kit)
```
https://writingexplained.org/ap-style/ie-and-eg 

learning that i may need to buy this book instead of googling super specific things

> You can also verify programmatically in the browser console. Inside the Storybook preview iframe:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also verify this programmatically in the browser console. Inside the Storybook preview `iframe`:
```

- **`document.fonts`**: Lists all registered font faces and their load status. Filter for CJK fonts with `[...document.fonts].filter(f => f.family.includes('han'))`.

> - **`document.documentElement.className`**: Typekit adds `wf-*-active` classes for each loaded font weight (e.g. `wf-adobe-clean-han-japanese-n4-active` for Japanese normal weight 400).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`document.documentElement.className`**: Typekit adds `wf-*-active` classes for each loaded font weight (e.g., `wf-adobe-clean-han-japanese-n4-active` for Japanese normal weight 400).
```

> - **`window.currentKitId`**: Shows the currently active Adobe Fonts kit ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`document.fonts`**: Lists all registered font faces and their load status. Filter for CJK fonts with `[...document.fonts].filter(f => f.family.includes('han'))`.
- **`document.documentElement.className`**: Typekit adds `wf-*-active` classes for each loaded font weight (e.g. `wf-adobe-clean-han-japanese-n4-active` for Japanese normal weight 400).
- **`window.currentKitId`**: Shows the currently active Adobe Fonts kit ID.
```

## Using fonts in your application

> > ⚠️ **Important:** If you're implementing Gen2 SWC in your application, you **must also** include Adobe Clean Spectrum VF in your project. The components will not render correctly with legacy Adobe Clean or system fonts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ **Important:** If you're using SWC Gen2 in your application, you **must also** include Adobe Clean Spectrum VF in your project. The components will not render correctly with legacy Adobe Clean or system fonts.
```

> For reference, Adobe employees can refer to the internal RSP Spectrum 2 Fonts guide documentation for additional details (Adobe internal wiki).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional details, Adobe employees can refer to the React Spectrum 2 Fonts guide documentation on the Adobe-internal wiki.
```

> **Note:** There is also a static (non-variable) version of Adobe Clean Spectrum available for teams or platforms that don't support variable fonts. They look exactly the same; it's just about how they function. Adobe-internal teams can reach out to the Spectrum team for access. Variable font support is broad across modern browsers, so this only matters for legacy platform constraints; if you hit one as an external consumer, check your Adobe Fonts web project for a static font option, or contact Adobe Fonts support directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** There is also a static (non-variable) version of Adobe Clean Spectrum available for teams or platforms that don't support variable fonts. They look exactly the same; the difference is in how they function. Adobe-internal teams can reach out to the Spectrum team for access. Variable fonts are broadly supported across modern browsers, so this only matters for legacy platform constraints. If you hit constraints as an external consumer, check your Adobe Fonts web project for a static font option, or contact Adobe Fonts support directly.
```

> **Note:** There is also a static (non-variable) version of Adobe Clean Spectrum available for teams or platforms that don't support variable fonts. They look exactly the same; the difference is in how they function. Adobe-internal teams can reach out to the Spectrum team for access. Variable fonts are broadly supported across modern browsers, so this only matters for legacy platform constraints. If you hit constraints as an external consumer, check your Adobe Fonts web project for a static font option, or contact Adobe Fonts support directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** There is also a static (i.e., non-variable) version of Adobe Clean Spectrum available for teams or platforms that don't support variable fonts. They look exactly the same — the difference is in how they function. Adobe-internal teams can reach out to the Spectrum team for access. Variable fonts are broadly supported across modern browsers, so this only matters for legacy platform constraints. If you hit constraints as an external consumer, check your Adobe Fonts web project for a static font option, or contact Adobe Fonts support directly.
```

| `<style>` element with CJK `@font-face` rules           | Not present                                 | CJK fonts registered via CSS Font Loading API, not DOM injection          |
| `[data-swc-typekit-dynamic]` elements with `@font-face` | Not present                                 | MutationObserver only stamps `.tk-*` helper `<style>` elements            |
| `<link rel="stylesheet">` to CJK kit CSS                | Not present                                 | CSS URLs return 412; CJK kits are JS-only delivery                        |
| CJK `@font-face` in DevTools **Sources**/**Network**    | Present under the JS script, not a CSS file | Delivered via `Typekit.load()` JS execution                               |

> | CJK font-family name present in "Rendered Fonts"        | Numerical font id, not the font-family name | Dynamic subsetting streams specific glyphs in addition to the font-family |

Reviewer: should `font-family` be in backticks here if it refers to the CSS prop?

Reviewer: Or if it's not referring to the CSS prop, maybe the hyphen should be removed.

Author: Keeping this one open for now, will take a closer look

};
```

3. **Add the locale to the Storybook toolbar** so it appears in the **Language** dropdown. This is configured in the Storybook global types

> 4. **Verify** by selecting the new locale in the toolbar, then confirming the kit loads using the programmatic verification steps above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Add the locale to the Storybook toolbar** so it appears in the **Language** dropdown. This is configured in the Storybook global types.
4. **Verify** by selecting the new locale in the toolbar, then confirming the kit loads using the programmatic verification steps above.
```

### CJK fonts not rendering

> If you switch to a CJK locale in the **Language** toolbar but text still renders in a system font:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you switch to a CJK locale in the **Language** toolbar, but text still renders in a system font:
```

1. Manually inspect the element and check the text elements **Computed** styles. Inheritance of the `font-family` property value could be interfering.
2. Check `window.currentKitId` in the preview iframe console — it should match the expected kit for that locale
3. Look for `wf-*-active` classes on the iframe's `<html>` element (e.g. `wf-adobe-clean-han-japanese-n4-active`). If missing, the kit script loaded but `Typekit.load()` may not have been called

> 4. Check the browser console for `Typekit.load() failed` warnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Manually inspect the element and check the text elements **Computed** styles. Inheritance of the `font-family` property value could be interfering.
2. Check `window.currentKitId` in the preview iframe console. It should match the expected kit for that locale.
3. Look for `wf-*-active` classes on the iframe's `<html>` element (e.g. `wf-adobe-clean-han-japanese-n4-active`). If missing, the kit script loaded, but `Typekit.load()` may not have been called.
4. Check the browser console for `Typekit.load() failed` warnings.
```
